Cloud Computing practical 1.

PART 1 AMAZON WEB SERVICES RACK-SPACE WINDOWS CLOUD GOOGLE CLOUD

1. What are cloud deployment models (types) for each company and their differences: 
AWS INFRASTRUCTURE AS A SERVICE IAA S PLATFORM AS A SERVICE PAA S SOFTWARE AS A SERVICE SAA S     
     + the most advanced company with cloud computing. 
     + Cloud, Hybrid, on Premise
     + Low Key Pricing
     + Secure and Flexible 
     + Application hosting, websites, backup and storage, 
     + multi types of infrastructures and services for business needs 
     + Content delivery 
     + IT department with customer support and content delivery
     
RACK-SPACE PUBLIC PRIVATE HYBRID MULTI-CLOUD
        + more infrastructure, 
        + Very good for Visualization 
        + Cognitive recognition 
        + dedicated servers with high performance compute 
        + secure, scalable and cloud ready 

WINDOWS CLOUD AZURE IAAS PAAS SAAS
        + mainly PAAS
        + Office 365 works well and is integrated 
        + more friendly than AWS for some people 
        + a platform based for building and deploying applications
        + high level artificial intelligence 
        + has machine learning capabilities for windows based applicaitons
        + building + testing + deploying
        + artificial intelligence could also means they have more resources and have a bigger infrastructure. 
        + Web Sites and Cloud Services

    - Google Cloud:
        + Compute Engine: IaaS : virtual machine instances for workload hosting 
        + Google App Engine : PaaS : Developers have access to scalable hosting. Uses (SDK) to help develop producs 
        + not fully private fairly modular
        + Cloud Storage : Using noSQL and MySql 
        + Container Engines : using Docker containers to run googles public cloud  
        + provides analytic tools for speech, text, images and videos.

2.         
- windows cloud azure:iaas, paas, saas
- windows cloud azure:
    IAAS: Virtual Machines 
    PAAS: the virtual interface that is independent of the actual hardware (VM)
    SAAS: SaaS service with azure automatically scales according to the level of usage.

- aws: more IaaS based 
    IAAS EC2: Elastic Compute Cloud. 
    >>     FEATURES: secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud, 
    >>    PROVIDES: COMPLETELY CONTROLLED, ELASTIC WEB-SCALE COMPUTING, FLEXIBLE CLOUD HOSTING SERVICES, INTEGRATED, RELIABLE, SECURE, INEXPENSIVE, EASY TO START
    PAAS: Elastic Beanstalk, Windows Azure, Heroku, Force.com, Google App Engine, Apache Stratus
    SAAS AWS Partner Network (APN): provides a low cost and is reliable

- google: more based on PaaS
    IAAS: Virtual Machines 
    PAAS: different options : VMS, Containers, PaaS and FaaS ( Google Cloud Functions )
    SAAS: Big Table, B2B , GCP management services
        >>     FEATURES: secure, a good authorization and authentication, Isolation and Holistic Interface service

All of these share : 
    Public Cloud
    Community Clouds
    Private Clouds
    Hybrid Clouds
    Other Deployment Models

3. what to consider to visualize data center? 
designing, developing and deploying a data center can be quite tricky and needs the help of many of the following steps to be taken in consideration. 
It all depends on what type of virtualization approach you would like to take. Whether you want your data center to be driven for os virtualization, 
application-server virtualization, application virtualization, administrative virtualization, network virtualization, hardware virtualization or storage virtualization. 
The significant challenges to virtualizing your data centers are knowing how many servers you will need, how fast can you deploy data, what are the dedicated server and how will you section them, how will migration work between the client to the server. Having a secure infrastructure for risk management to overcome any chaos. Gathering the right resources and being able to allocate data. Knowing how to deal with multi workload using VM hypervisor, IO Streams and determining the increases of IOPA needed for the workload. Last but not least. Being able to have a flexible team that with current technology. This is so that once technology does not need physical labor, you have experts that can take care of other complexities in your data center. 

4. I have found that the cheapest cost provider between Amazon, Windows and Google cloud is AWS. Where a standard 2 vCPU with SSD would run you at a $0.133 hourly.  
 in the same range: Azure would be $0.114 and google would be $0.212

5. If I were to go with one provider over another I would choose Google cloud because of its ability, resources, price points and more. You first get a higher discount with Google cloud but also get better benefits like live migration of virtual machines which neither of their competitors have. live migration of virtual machines provides such as patching, repairing, 
and updating the software and hardware without any worries of rebooting or malfunctions of the machine. This is such an advantage since customers need a secure way to retain their data. 
Google is also always improving their performance decreasing load times and keeping up with the latest security measures. 
they are worldwide known and are always expanding across the world. 

6. Computer networks are interconnected collection of computers with the ability to exchange information whereas distributed systems 
are multiple interconnected computers in a computer network that is transparent to the user. 
in Distributed systems, the system allocated workload to the processor moving files 
among them without explicit intervention whereas a network works 
more remotely and can use automation to moves files around a network  

>> Part Two 

1. It is complicated because these files are distributed among not only a network system but also replicated among multiple instances of computers. 
If you delete one and you do not have a strong backup system or network/hierarchy architecture then the wrong files might be replaced, deleted, updates and so on. 

2. You can delete files that are completely secure to delete among your stable cloud system. This means that making sure you have a backup locally that isn't based on a network-based/ distributed system

3. You are able to delete authorized and replaceable data. where the client can still have access to it in some form of a backup or file structure. you can also not delete system files that are part of the interworking of your cloud-based system. 

4. When deleting and finding what you want to keep you need to have a clear understanding on what security measures you need to take. making sure that there are no dependencies between files is a key step to making sure you can safely delete and update the right files from your local computer to the cloud. 

